---
layout: post
title:  "How this page was built" 
date:   2013-10-17 18:22:10
categories: posts
excerpt: I recently redesigned scottluptowski.com to function as a blog and a portfolio of past work.  My primary objective for the redesign was to work with a new (to me) technology which would let me create a dual-purpose blog/portfolio site while affording me maximum control and customizability.
---

I recently redesigned scottluptowski.com to function as a blog and a portfolio of past work.  My primary objective for the redesign was to work with a new (to me) technology which would let me create a dual-purpose blog/portfolio site while affording me maximum control and customizability. I drifted away from Octopress towards Jekyll to maintain that control. Jekyll allows me to customize to my heart's content without having to deal with features I do not want.

The CSS was designed mobile-first and written from scratch without the overhead of a framework like Bootstrap or Foundation. I'd eventually like to rewrite the CSS with Sass and serve the compiled CSS with a plugin like [jekyll-assets](https://github.com/ixti/jekyll-assets "jekyll-assets") or [jekyll-asset-pipeline](https://github.com/matthodan/jekyll-asset-pipeline "jekyll-asset-pipeline").

My plan was to host this site on Github Pages for their ease of deployment. However, Github Pages does not allow Jekyll plugins. I instead decided to host this page on Amazon Web Services, and I use a gem called [s3_website](https://github.com/laurilehmijoki/s3_website "s3_website") to deploy my site with only one command.

Finally, I installed a Jekyll plugin called [jsonball](https://gist.github.com/ahgittin/1895282 "jsonball") so I can host metadata about my posts in JSON rather than in YAML front-matter. Currently, the projects listing page is generated by reading content from a JSON file. As my site grows in size I believe my decision to use JSON instead of YAML will make things easier for me, and I'll be posting more about my decision process and its benefits.